---
title:  "Sapiens"
date:   2018-01-27 12:00:00 +0000
author: "Henrique Pacheco"
layout: post
image: assets/img/sapiens.jpg
short_description: "A magnificent journey through the history of humankind"
categories: Books
---

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/sapeins-book-cover.jpg" description="Sapiens - A Brief History of Humankind." width="400" %}

[Sapiens][sapiens-link] got me from the first page. Having been very well recommended by a friend, the bar was set high from the start, but it's easy to understand why. The book describes the compelling, eloquent, sometimes **harsh** but always **fascinating**, journey of the evolution of *Homo Sapiens* as a biological species - how it has spread, dominating virtually all the planet - ending today, where we stand.

The timeline of History in the first page reads like a travelling guide before going to some country for the first time. By getting to know how our ancestors lived  (thousands of years ago), we can understand the (many) similiraties we share with them, the decisions we made in our evolutionary steps and how we have (or haven't) learnt from the mistakes we made.

DO SOMETHING COOL WITH THE TIMELINE OF HISTORY

Sapiens travels throughout the history of humankind, highlighting 3 main events in our history:


## The Cognitive Revolution

The first big event in the lifespan of *Homo Sapiens* was the **Cognitive Revolution** - how the evolution of imagination enabled complete strangers to cooperate effectively based on the beliefs in imagined entities.

Harari defends that Sapiens dominated the planet because it is the only species that is able to cooperate effectively in large numbers. This rises from the unique ability of believing in things that exist only in our collective imagination - such as **gods**, **money**, **nations** or **human rights**.

> “There are no gods, no nations, no money and no human rights, except in our collective imagination.”
>
> *Yuval Noah Harari, Sapiens*

This happened ~70 thousand years ago, and kicked off the dominance of Sapiens over the other existing *Homo* gender species - Neanderthals, for instance -, and further conquering all of the Earth's species.



## The Agricutural Revolution

**[12000 BC] Agricultural Revolution** - how the evolution of farming triggered an explosion in populational growth, leading to the appearance of cities, kingdoms and empires.

TODO

> “TODO FIND QUOTE”
>
> *Yuval Noah Harari, Sapiens*


## The Scientific Revolution

**[1500 AC] Scientific Revolution** - how assuming "we don't know everthing" helped humans learn even more and establish an objective scientific method.

TODO

> “TODO FIND QUOTE”
>
> *Yuval Noah Harari, Sapiens*




TOPICS TO COVER:


How human history can be revealing of our present mistakes

How assuming "we dont know everything" helped us grow as a species

How this book can contribute to find our own view of the world, of each of us as beings, and Society as a whole

Puts everything into a new perspective - the historical term

They say that we die two times - when we stop breathing and when our name is referred the last time


[sapiens-link]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23692271-sapiens
